The project provides an API (called CABAC) for the actual implementation of software connectors, whose aim is to ensure interoperability among heterogeneous software entities, based on a mediator algebra developed within the Work Package WP2 of the CONNECT EU project (https://www.connect-forever.eu/). The implementation of the API is based on the use of  Enterprise Integration Patterns (http://www.eaipatterns.com/) and is developed through the Apache Camel framework (http://camel.apache.org/).

The mediator algebra attempts to structure the concept of software connector treating it like a suitable composition of mediation primitives. The provided API is an object-oriented implementation of both the algebra primitives and the composition operators.

Suppose that we have two or more applications that wish to interoperate. Often, these applications do not interact by following the same protocol. For example a sender application sends a single message, while the receivers expects a set of related submessage. If we are dealing with black-box applications, and hence we cannot change their implementation, we can interpose a connector between these applications in order to achieve interoperability. For example, in our case, we need a "splitter" that receives an incoming message by the sender and, relying on a specified splitting logic (by the connector developer), splits the message into several related messages and sends them to the respective receivers.

The main goal is to express the development concepts existing in Camel and re-expose them to connector developers by following the modular structure defined by the above mentioned algebra where mediation primitives and composition operators become first-class entities for writing the actual code implementing a software connector.

The main goal of this blog is show how to work with this API, and model (i hope together) some real scenario.

If someone is interested, i'm glad to give you material and further explanation. Please contact me to giacomolm@gmail.com.